Do you think cancer is entirely
preventable? Yes, absolutely. They say
cancer is a genetic disease. It's a very
complicated disease. That's I
have the science. I published these
papers in top medical journals. If
people want to live, they'll know about
it. Professor Thomas Seaff Freed is a
worldrenowned expert in cancer and a
best-selling author of cancer as a
metabolic disease. He has a
revolutionary treatment for cancer that
even your doctor doesn't know. We have
1,700 people a day dying in the United
States from cancer. And we have people
dying from cancer in all countries
around the world. Yeah, you can have
cancer, but if you know how to manage
it, it doesn't become a death sentence.
Do you have success stories? Yeah. Well,
we had Pablo Kelly. My name is Pablo
Kelly. When I was about 24, I was
diagnosed with a grade 4 glyobblastoma
multiform brain tumor. I was given well
6 to9 months talking to the oncologist.
I declined standard of care with 2 and
1/2 years of metabolic therapy. Voila,
the tumor was operable. And the same
thing can be with breast cancer,
prostate cancer, colon cancer. They all
can be managed quite effectively with
metabolic therapy. Do you think highfat
diets can actually kill cancer? The
high-fat diet is designed to keep your
mitochondria healthy. If your
mitochondria remain healthy, you're not
going to get cancer. It's not like, oh,
let me go out and eat a tub of lard. Let
the GKI, the glucose ketone index, tell
you what you can in Kennedy. And we know
we kill cancer cells when we have a GKI
2.0 and below. Wait until the world
knows about this. Everybody's going to
be jumping on metabolic therapy. Where
you
going? This episode features Professor
Thomas Seaf Freed, and we're discussing
the new way to treat active cancer and
even prevent it with a highfat diet.
Now, if you're learning from and
enjoying these free episodes, please hit
the subscribe button because we know
that real food is medicine. And by the
simple act of subscribing, you can help
share the message to millions more
people that need to hear the truth. And
now for the episode with Professor
Thomas Seaff Freed. Professor Seaff
Freed, welcome. Well, thank you very
much. It's nice to be here. When it
comes to cancer, it puts the fear of
impending death in most people's minds.
Most people will think that if I get it,
it's too late. there's nothing that I
can do about it. But that is not true.
So today, Professor Seafrey is going to
share his 40 years of clinical
experience and cancer research. We're
going to talk about the true cause of
cancer, why it's not genetic, and how to
actually fix cancer with a highfat diet,
and that involves eating more bacon and
more butter. So, Professor Seaf Freed,
my first question, if someone has just
clicked on this video and they're
thinking, "How likely is it that I'm
going to get cancer?" How likely is it
that someone's going to get cancer in
their lifetime? Well, it depends on how
they live their life. Um, you know, some
people never get cancer. Uh, doesn't
happen to everybody. I mean, we have a
lot of centurions that are over 100
years old, uh, that have never gotten
cancer. Um, Madame Clement, the oldest
woman that ever existed on the planet,
uh, 122 years of age, drank wine and
smoked cigarettes until she was 119. she
never got cancer. So, not everybody gets
cancer, but I but I think I think what
we're doing to ourselves today uh puts a
lot of people at risk for cancer. Um I I
think that what we're seeing is a
sedentary lifestyle. Uh where we're
eating large amounts of highly processed
carbohydrates. Uh we're not exercising
like we should and we're under medical
mental stress, emotional stress.
uh poor sleep, uh loneliness,
uh
microchemicals, forever chemicals and
microlastics. I I think when you put all
that together, uh we're seeing more and
more younger people getting cancer for
sure and the number of people getting
cancer is increasing and the number of
people dying from cancer is increasing.
So yeah, it's not it's not a it's not uh
a a good picture uh and will not likely
get better uh until people realize that
cancer is a mitochondrial metabolic
disease uh that can be easily managed by
maintaining mitochondrial health, which
is doing the opposite of all the things
that I just said. Absolutely. And that
was a long list of people thinking,
well, I've got to do all of these things
I have to fix. We're going to talk about
them one by one. easy easy fixes. But I
did read a quote saying that one in two
men and one in three women will get
cancer in their lifetime. Is it that
much? Well, I think if you abuse your
body, it certainly could be. Um I mean
it's hard to get cancer. Cancer is very
difficult to get. Um you know, if you
try to give cancer to mice or monkeys
and things like this, uh it's very hard.
There was one study where they use
monkeys from South America. I think they
were new world monkeys of some sort. And
they try to give these monkeys cancer by
rubbing carcinogen on their on their
arms and and having them eat it and
drink it and feed it to them. And uh um
in 10 years only only one of the 50
monkeys got cancer um because they were
in their own diet and lifestyle. Uh the
the pro the problem is is that if you
took the monkey and gave him all the
highly processed crap that we eat uh and
then uh um had a panther walk around his
cage putting the fear of God into him
every day freaking him out, no exercise,
eating crap foods. The the monkeys may
have gotten pancreatic cancer, colon
cancer. Um there's never been a
documented case of breast cancer in a
female chimpanzeee and they're almost
the same genetically as we are. So, what
is what's the chimp doing uh that we're
not doing? Um, he's not eating the crap
food that we eat. He's he's doing what
he nor you got to put you got to change
these animals behave. You got to put
them in a in a radically different uh
environment and just give them what they
love to eat, poorly nutritious foods in
large quantities, right? So, if you gave
uh elephants, elephants don't get
cancer. uh they haven't found elephants
with cancer, but you know, how many how
many jelly donuts would you have to feed
an elephant before before he would get
pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer? I
mean, dozens and dozens. And he would
love it. I mean, it wouldn't be like,
oh, they would say, oh, don't do that.
It's a harmful to the elephant. Well,
well, we're doing it to ourselves every
day in almost every country. We're not
exercising. We're eating crap food. uh
you know it puts us at risk for not only
cancer it puts us at risk for all kinds
of chronic diseases. So um all these
chronic diseases cancer included are all
uh the result of dysfunctional
mitochondria in the cell the
mitochondria the energy generating
organel in our cells becomes corrupted
leading to chronic diseases and cancer.
Absolutely. We're going to talk about
the mitochondrial dysfunction um because
many people think that when it comes to
cancer there's nothing that they can do
about it. It is a fear of impending
death in most people's minds. Do you
think then that cancer is entirely
preventable in most cases? Yes,
absolutely. Even Otto Warberg said that
most cancer is in our paleolithic
ancestors uh cancer was extremely rare.
How do we know? Because we have people
that live in tribes and according
traditional ways uh and cancer was
extremely rare when when these people
were evaluated
um for cancer. um you know you had um
different physicians uh and
humanitarians that would go around and
look at Inouit populations, African
populations
uh when they were living according to
their ways. Um Albert Schwitzer
certainly did look for cancer among
African tribes. He didn't find any. Very
rare. He looked he even looked for
thousands. What's where what's going on?
As soon as the great western diet and
lifestyle enter into the society, you
get all kinds of uh cancers, uh
cardiovascular disease, type two,
diabetes, obesity, you get all the the
great uh wonders of our technological
advances in food technology. So, so
yeah. So, um yeah, that and you have to
do that. You have to abuse your body
doing this for decades. You don't
usually, you know, eat a pizza and the
next day wake up with a big tumor on
your colon. I It's usually an an abusive
series of behaviors all culminating
together with chemicals in the
environment uh all culminating in some
form of disregulated cell growth which
is cancer in some organ of the body. So
let's talk about how cancer starts
develops in the body because you're
saying it's over decades. It's not
overnight. It's not like you eat a pizza
and you get a tumor the next day. So um
because I think people don't understand
this in terms of if you have what is
cancer in terms of cell growth in the
body what's happening well I mean we
published this many in many papers um
the definition of the disorders called
cell division out of control okay well
you know the cells in your liver kidney
colon spleen breast brain uh they're all
there doing their um metabolically
designed metabolically homeostatic
condition. Uh what would make uh one of
these cells start to grow in in a
disregulated way? A and that and that we
have we have clearly shown that it is
chronic disruption of the ability of the
cell to use oxygen to obtain energy. So
one of the uh differences between a
cancer cell and a normal cell
non-cancerous cell is the way the cell
uses energy. Um all of the cells in our
body with the exception of ariththroytes
and perhaps a few others uh we breathe
energy we breathe oxygen and the oxygen
serves as an acceptor for electrons uh
through the mitochondrial electron
transport chain in the organel called
the
mitochondria and and we can generate
tremendous amounts of energy because
without energy
uh nothing can survive. So energy then
becomes
uh the key feature of life. Um
interestingly enough uh all of our cells
uh for the most part are using oxygen to
to generate energy. In cancer uh uh the
oxygen that is consumed by the cancer
cell is not used for producing
sufficient energy from oxidative
phosphorilation. it it's actually
produces reactive oxy oxygen species ROS
which are carcinogenic and mutagenic. So
the cancer cell is throwing out uh
reactive carcinogens and mutagens that
damage other parts of the cell um
causing mutations in the nucleus. Of
course many cancer cells have mutations
in the nucleus but these are not the
cause. These are the effects of the
disturbed energy
metabolism in in the mitochondria and
and the and the fuel that's driving the
disregulated growth now becomes fuels
that don't need oxygen. So that's called
fermentation, energy without oxygen. And
the two fuels that we and others have
have identified are the sugar glucose
and the amino acid glutamine which is a
very highly abundant amino acid in our
in our bloodstream. Our big uh finding
and discovery to clear up the mess was
that this amino acid can also be
fermented can also generate energy in
the absence of oxygen in the organel
this mitochondria. So this this was a um
it's a big it's a big discovery but a
lot of people simply can't understand it
uh yet um because they look at the
mitochondria and they say oh look at all
the ATP coming out of there it's taking
in oxygen and an energy called ATP is
coming out and they say see it's
perfectly similar to a normal cell but
the the issue is the normal cell is
using the oxygen to make ATP the cancer
cell is using the oxygen to make
carcinogens and mutagens and They're
using other fuels to ferment which is
energy without oxygen. And the waste
products of fermentation are lactic acid
and suinic acid. And the cancer cell is
dumping those out clearly telling us in
no uncertain terms what it is doing to
stay alive. So uh we know that and if
and they grow in the absence of oxygen.
So clearly cancer cells do not use
oxygen where normal cells use oxygen. So
that tells us the the the foundational
difference between a cancer cell and a
normal cell and they're used they can't
grow without the glucose glutamine and
they can't switch to fatty acids or
ketone bodies like normal cells can. So
the whole cancer thing is extremely
simple in how to kill cancer and manage
cancer to both prevent and manage it. So
why does the field not know this? Um and
why do they not act upon it? Uh and
there's a lot of reasons for that and
one of the reasons is they they think
cancer is a genetic disease. So they
keep chasing mutations and hunting and
trying to target uh mutations or the
effects of mutations which are mostly
irrelevant. And as as the result of
chasing and targeting things that are
not relevant to the disease, we have
1,700 people a day dying in the United
States from cancer, which is 70 an hour.
And we have people dying from cancer in
all countries around around the world uh
in high numbers. And and none of these
people none of these studies are
targeting the glucose and glutamine to
stop the proliferation uh of these
disregulated cells and transitioning the
body to fatty acids and ketones while
you're simultaneously targeting the
fermentable fuels. You can go to any
oncology clinic in the world and
describe what I just said and they look
at you like a deer in the headlight.
They have no clue. They've never heard
what I said. And then if you and if they
they want to act upon this, the standard
of care prevents them from acting upon
this, which is the change of radiation
and chemo and a lot of the crazy things
they're doing to these people. Um they
say, "Geez, why don't we just target
glucose and glutamine while
transitioning the body to nutritional
ketosis?" Oh, no, no, we can't do that.
I I said, 'Wh? Well, we haven't heard
why we we'd have heard something about
No, you're not going to hear anything.
In medical school, you're told the
cancer is a genetic disease. Therefore,
you have to do imunotherapies and all
these other kinds of things. And and one
of the things that's really remarkable,
how come we don't make any advance?
Well, uh it's hard to make an advance
when the entire world thinks it's
something other than what it is. Um and
and that explains why none no country
whether it's Australia, England,
Germany, France, UK, United States,
China, uh we're all doing the same
thing. You go there and everywhere
they're they use oh we have to
surgically debulk we have to give you
poisonous chemicals and radiation and
imunotherapies or something like this
and and a lot of people are killed by
the treatments and a lot of people if
they do survive the treatment they're
damaged in many different ways. their
organs are damaged from radi and
radiation is not healthy. Let me tell
you, it's not a healthy way to to get no
one goes out and gets nuked or poisoned
to become healthy. And yet, we're doing
this to people with cancer. It's nuts.
Doesn't make any sense. Um, and they
don't make any sense because if you go
to the National Institutes of Health,
they say cancer is a genetic disease.
It's a very complicated disease.
Hundreds of different kinds of cats.
The the the they're all the
same. We showed that every major cancer.
So is just dependent on glucose and
glutamine and can't burn fatty acids or
ketone bodies. They're all the same
colon breast canc. They're all they're
all basically have the same metabolic
problem. That was my next question. So
when it comes to breast cancer, prostate
cancer, brain cancer, are they all one
in the same same conditions? Yeah, they
all have dysfunctional mitochondria are
dependent on a fermentation meta
metabolism to to grow. So and they
acidify the micro environment with the
waste products of the fermentation
metabolism. Um it's it's over and over
again. Every major cancer has uh
insufficient oxidative phosphorilation
coupled to substrate level phos which is
the scientific terminology that I'm
using. Oxidative phosphorilation
replaced largely by substrate level
phosphorilation. This is an ancient
pathway of energy before oxygen came
into the atmosphere 2 and a half billion
years ago. All the cells that existed on
the planet were fermenttors. These
cancer cells are simply falling back on
these ancient pathways that are driven
by glucose and glutamine uh to get
energy. So we have clearly defined the
fuels driving the disregulated growth.
And what you do is you target those
fuels because the normal cells in the
body can transition over to fatty acids
and ketone bodies and the tumor cells
can't because their mitochondria are
dysfunctional. How is that so
complicated? Um uh but I I might as well
be speaking in hieroglyphics or drawing
things because nobody see can seem to
understand it except when the people
start using this therapy to manage their
cancer and the doctors are always
mythed. Oh I didn't know you were going
to survive so long. Oh you you know what
are you doing and then when you tell
them what they're do a lot of times the
physicians say I don't know what you're
doing but just keep doing it. As
Professor Seafruit mentions, the most
effective way to treat active cancer and
even prevent it is through metabolic
therapy. And that involves lowering the
carbohydrates and increasing your
healthy fats. And later in the episode,
we'll discuss the easy way that you can
know that your glucose is low enough and
your healthy fats and your ketones are
high enough so that you achieve
therapeutic ketosis. And that's using
what's called the GKI index. Now, as you
make this switch to lowering the
carbohydrates and increasing your
healthy fats, you might experience some
side effects like headache, nausea, and
fatigue. Now, all this is very normal,
especially at the beginning. So, what
you can do is salt your meals and salt
your water. But if the symptoms still
persist, I would highly recommend you
lean on a high quality electrolyte, one
that has sodium, potassium, and
magnesium, because this is so important
for proper brain and body function. And
that is why I have Element as a sponsor
of today's video. I personally like to
use a high quality supplement like
Element because it has a scienceback mix
of sodium, potassium, and magnesium
without anything artificial and no
preservatives. Now, Element has a wide
variety of flavors to choose from, but I
like the raw unflavored. I pop half a
sache in my morning coffee and the other
half I sprinkle in my water during the
day. And right now, Element is offering
my viewers this free sample pack on
every order. So, you're going to get
eight single servings of Element to try
for free. So if you want this just head
to
drinkelement.com/theprimal podcast. So
do you have a success story because
because you mentioned um one in Greece
uh more recently around people doing
this is called metabolic therapy uh to
treat cancer. Do you have success
stories? Yeah. Well, we had Pablo Kelly
who passed away. Uh he was a glyopblasto
patient uh who was initially diagnosed
with an inoperable glyopblast in
2014. And he reached out to me and he he
he didn't want any surgery at first,
radiation or chemo, just did metabolic
therapy. And um his tumor uh well they
were surprised it did it didn't grow
very fast. It started to slow down. And
then after two and a half years he had
it cut out uh debulked. Um and then he
thought he was free of the cancer. Uh
but it never never got completely out
and it started to grow again but very
very slowly and he had it debulked a
second time. Uh and then after several
more years he had it debulked a third
time never taking radiation or
chemo. And then we spoke to him a week
before he died and we were laughing and
and at the fact that he had three rem
debulking surgeries to move what was
originally described as an inoperable
tumor. So, we were laughing about that
how you have an in you're diagnosed with
an inoperable tumor that was going to
kill you in nine months uh if you did
not have radiation and chemo because the
tumor could not be operated on. But with
uh two and a half years of metabolic
therapy, voila, the tumor was operable,
cut out, but it grew back. So, he was
never cured. But he on the fourth
debulking surgery which was a week after
we spoke to him he was in good spirits.
He got married had two children since
the since since the original diagnosis.
So he died in in in in in
2024 last last um Labor Day I guess last
September um from a cerebral hemorrhage
as the result of a fourth debulking
surgery. He died 12 hours after that the
cerebral hemorrhage. If he didn't have
that last debulking surgery, which was
only to get rid of some tiny residual
piece, he probably would have been still
alive with us today. But 10 years with a
glyobblasto is unheard of. Um, so, uh,
oh, people say, well, he's only a fluke,
an end of one. Oh, yeah. Well, why don't
you see if we can get more? Oh, no, no,
we have to do radiation and chemo. Well,
that's what he didn't do. That's what he
did not do. But our recent paper out of
Greece, now that's a bigger study
because that used 18 people um half half
of whom uh did a Mediterranean
uh calorierestricted Mediterranean diet,
but they were irdiated and they did have
teolomide. They did have standard of
care uh which itself puts the patient at
incredible risk for death. Um but they
were unable to convince the
institutional review board not to
irdiate and use poisonous chemicals. So
they had to do that because it's locked
like it's written in granite everywhere.
Um so anyway they did use a calorie
according to our uh procedures the
glucose ketone index calculator and they
used a
calorierestricted Mediterranean
ketogenic diet which is and published
just came out so you can read it in
frontiers in nutrition. um and uh uh of
the people that maintained and and and
the diet wasn't bad. It was sardines and
salmon, olive oil, and some avocado and
maybe some other stuff. U but you know,
not unpalatable for sure. Um and and uh
you know, eight people followed that uh
and and um um six people, sorry,
followed that and 10 people didn't. And
the reason why that they didn't follow
it, it was it was like pressure from the
family and and and some people felt that
they already had radiation and chemo.
They didn't want to do a diet. And but
anyway, the the guys that followed the
diet that um um four of the six survived
beyond three years. Um and the guys uh
who didn't do the diet, only one uh
survived to three years. So clearly a
striking difference in overall survival
uh doing metabolic therapy and that was
with um standard of care. Now my
hypothesis and I've told the oncology
world prove me wrong. I said if you
didn't do radiation and toxic poison
surgery for sure we don't we don't rule
that out. We can shrink down those
tumors if we have a watchful waiting
period and then the surgeon will debulk
or take out a much greater part of the
tumor and then transition the people
back over to metabolic therapy like
Pablo Kelly. But now we know we can
target glutamine uh with with parasite
medications uh which makes it even more
powerful. So so we think we can keep
cancer patients alive two, three, four
times longer with without toxicity. uh
brain cancer go glyopblastoma patients
much much longer at a much higher
quality of life but nobody wants to
touch that with a 10-oot pole um they
they want to stick to the the crazy
stuff they've been doing uh for 100
years you know we haven't made any
advance in glyobblasto in 100 years um
and and and we want to move them forward
we want to move it forward but um
there's a lot of
reasons why and a lot of it has nothing
to do with the science
The science tells us exactly what to do.
The tumor cells are telling us exactly
what they're doing to stay alive. And
they're telling us that if we do this
and that, we will kill them. But what
the tumor cells are telling us seems to
fall on the deaf ears of the
establishment. Uh they want to continue
to do the stuff they've been doing for
decades without any major advance. Um
and we're saying no, we can keep these
guys alive a lot longer. And the same
thing can be with breast cancer, uh
prostate cancer, colon cancer, all they
all can be managed quite effectively, uh
with metabolic therapy, uh uh but what
we do is we do horrible things to
people. Uh you know, we poison and
irdiate them to make them healthy and
and and a lot of times this doesn't
work. And the new
imunotherapies, Katruda, Abdivo,
Avasten, all these kinds of things, um
they're not working to a great extent.
Yes, they are working on some people. I
don't want to say that they're not
working. You do get about 20% of people
that do really well. Uh then you get 60%
of people where they don't doesn't do
anything. But then there's a term called
hyper progressive disease where the
therapy will kill you before the cancer.
It's called hyper progressive disease.
And you get about 20 16 to 20% of these
folks. So you know why would you treat
anyone with a remote chance that it will
kill you. Uh but what's another thing
which we're finding is if you do
metabolic therapy the standard of care
can do better as well. So and that's
what the what the Greek study was
telling us. Um but if we didn't do
standard of care or we used modified
parts of the standard of care, we can
keep people alive so much longer,
especially when they're first diagnosed.
A lot of people come to me after they've
been brutalized by the system and say,
"I want to do metabolic therapy." Well,
they're gaunt. uh they look like death
warmed over, you know, they're all bald
and I mean, man, it's tough to bring
somebody back from that kind of abuse,
but when you're first diagnosed, uh
usually you're pretty healthy in a lot
of lot of cases. You know, you're not so
bad off. You do really remarkably well
when you institute metabolic therapy up
front. And then if you need radiation
and chemo, you can always do that.
Nobody's preventing you, but why would
you do it up front? make yourself
brutalized by make your body unhealthy
by poison and radiation are not healthy
for the body because it's because people
they don't know about this metabolic
therapy well they're learning I can tell
you right now a lot of people know about
it but when they go and go to their
professionals even in Australia they I
can know I can tell you a lot of times
New Zealand Australia they get slapped
down they say oh there's no evidence to
support where don't these people read no
they don't read the scientific
literature and they either don't read it
or don't understand it they have to be
wait to be told. It's not like they they
have any ability to say I want to do
metabolic therapy and then the system
says well you can't do that you must do
standard of care. Oh well that prevents
even the good physician that understands
the science can't even do it. So the
system has to be gutted. Uh this system
is not working for us. Uh uh and who
controls the system? The hospitals the
pharmaceutical companies? I don't know.
You figure it out. All I know is people
want to live and the system is
preventing them from doing that. And if
those who live pay a price, your bones
are have bone problem, bone density
problems, you have emotional stress, you
have cardiovascular problems, uh you
have all kinds of new ailments for the
fact that you survive toxic poison and
radiation or surgical mutilation. uh I
mean uh the whole system has to be
revamped and changed uh if people want
to live a and uh and they want to get on
with their lives. They yeah you can have
cancer but if you know how to manage it,
it doesn't become a death sentence. Um
you can take the fear and the the
anxiety out of this disease very easily.
Um but but that's not being that's not
being conveyed. That information is not
I have the science. I published these
papers in top medical journals and there
it is laid out in front of you. It's
just I mean what am I gonna do? Jam it
down your throat? I mean what what do we
do here? But if people want to live
they'll know about it. So do you think
that the metabolic therapy can actually
save people that have existing cancer
and it can prevent cancer entirely? Oh
absolutely prevent. You can't get cancer
if your mitochondria healthy. Don't
forget our paleolithic ances. Now who
wants to go back and live in a cave
right? You want to go back and, you
know, eat eat uh what do you guys eat
down there? Koala bears and kangaroos
and that kind of stuff. I mean, hey, you
got a koala bear running through your
backyard. Oh, he's dinner tonight. You
know, uh,
it's not that bad here in Australia.
Come on. I mean, it's actually People
think that about Australia that we've
got kangaroos just jumping outside our
backyard. But you actually have to go to
the outback to see the kangaroos.
Then bring them in town. Bring them on
the streets of Sydney. Yeah. Yeah.
Wrestling them down. That's dinner for
tonight, right? I mean, you think of the
people that lived in Australia before
the uh the Irish came there and all
these others. They were Aboriginal
folks. What did they eat? How much
cancer did those guys get? Uh uh how
much diabetes? How many morbidly obese
Aboriginal folks did you ever see living
in the outback and wherever? Um you
know, uh when you look at those kinds of
folks, they were lean. they they they
were chiseled. Uh they had a lot of
exercise. They weren't eating. Now you
take those same folks and give them the
great uh western diet and lifestyle and
they got cancer, diabetes, obesity. They
got all all the stuff that the rest of
us have. So uh it's clearly diet and
lifestyle. Um and the gene mutations
that people say, "Oh, I got Bracka 1."
We have we have a big paper ready to
launch. Every one of those genetic risk
factors are what we call a risk factor
that initiates disregulated cell growth
because it impacts the mitochondria
directly. So, so we know what causes
cancer and we can reduce the risk to
massively, but we have to change our
diet and lifestyle. And some people
would say, I'm going to roll the dice.
It's like a guy who smokes. Oh, I like
smoking. I'll I I I don't know if I'll
ever get lung cancer. I I might get
emphyma, but I'm I like smoking. Okay.
Okay. Well, we're never going to take
away uh pizzas and jelly donuts and and
uh all kinds of highly processed carbs
from people. We just want to let them
know that if you eat that, you put
yourself at risk for cancer, diabetes,
high blood pressure, hypertension,
dementia, all these kinds of things. Um
they just don't know that right now. But
we we offer a plan using the glucose
ketone index calculator as a tool to
know whether or not you're in a zone of
risk for cancer and chronic diseases and
and what you can do to get out of that
zone into a healthier zone. All
quantitative which then becomes
everybody's personal choice to determine
whether or not they want to live in a
risky zone or a healthy zone. Let's talk
about the solution then getting into
this metabolic therapy so that we
understand the theory around you're
saying that basically um cells so the
mitochondria gets dysfunctional and then
the cells rely on an energy which is
called fermentation which relies on
glutamine and glucose for energy and
it's anorobic so it's not using oxygen
for energy and that's how cancer cells
multiply and get worse. Is that kind of
the good summary around that? Yeah. and
and and as they get worse and worse uh
they acidify the micro environment
making because their waste products are
acid acid and that causes a much greater
amount of
inflammation. So you have abnormal blood
vessels. the immune system comes in and
the immune system then throws out growth
factors and cytoines which makes a bad
situation much much worse um uh to to
this and then of course uh when the
cancer cells spread which is called
metastasis metastasis or metastasis
um we have we have clearly shown what
the nature the biology of the metastatic
cell is an immune cell it's a macrof
part of our immune system itself So once
you we took us 10 years to figure this
out and and the field the cancer field
uh still thinks all cancer these
metastatic cells are stem cells. I can't
go into the absurdity of how the cancer
field looks at metastasis and looks at
all this stuff. It's all based on gene
think silo gene think. And and when you
do that you're you're lost. You're a
lost soul. You're a lost scientist. Um
we have clearly shown that these
metastatic cells are hybrid cells of
macrofasages which is a very powerful
cell in our body to kill bacteria and
they have the they're already programmed
to to uh move through lymph nodes.
They're already programmed to enter and
exit the bloodstream and we already know
that they're highly glutamine dependent.
So we know how to kill them. Um, at the
same time, we know that the immune
cells, the normal immune cells need and
use the same fuel as the tumor cell. So,
you can't be too aggressive in knowing,
well, yes, we'll kill a lot of tumor
cells, but if we don't use the tool
correctly, we'll damage our own immune
system, preventing our immune system for
picking up the dead corpses from the
metabolic therapy. So um the I guess I
guess the difficulty
uh which makes it a little bit more
complicated and not as simple as I've
made it. It's to me it's remarkably
simple but we have to be sure that
people know biology and they need to
know the difference between the biology
of immune cell and the biology of a
non-immune cell and the biology of a
cancer cell versus the biology of of
these different cells. So it's a
biological problem uh and it's a it's
how the cells get energy what the
biology of the cell is and once you know
that this cancer problem becomes very
manageable so so to simplify it in a way
it's targeting two things glucose which
is what the cancer cells feed off and
then also a glutamine I want to discuss
both so that people even at home they
can do things to prevent cancer with
what they eat and their lifestyle
focusing on the glucose part um so we'll
talk about the ketogenic diet and
ketones and the GKI index in a second,
but I want to ask you about glutamine
because that's a non-essential amino
acid. So, the body uses that. So, how
does that feed cancer? Well, that's a
that's a an essential fuel for cancer.
You you can't you can't grow without it.
The glutamine is given nitrogen. So, um
uh the glucose gives the carbons and the
glutamine gives carbons and nitrogen and
both of them give energy ATP. Um, so the
glutamine is uh you can't grow and make
new DNA and RNA and proteins without a
nitrogen source. So the glutamine
provides the cancer cell with the
nitrogen source. Uh, and the cancer is
taking in glucose in large amounts and
those are the carbons for making fatty
acids and nucleic acids. So there's a
huge powerful synergy between the
carbons from glucose and the carbons and
nitrogen from glutamine. They together
they are powerful synergistic fuels. So
but you can lower glucose with diet and
lifestyle issues. But glutamine requires
targeting uh uh you can also lower some
glutamine with with great exercise.
Exercise uh which is another uh absolute
necessity for managing cancer is the
exercise part. The exercise sucks the
glucose out of the blood uh for the
muscles lowering blood sugar further uh
but also can lower glutamine. So um uh
and then you come in with a small amount
of glutamine targeting drugs pulsing
pulsing. That's why we developed the
press pulse strategy. You can press
glucose down but you can you you can't
press glutamine because the it's
absolutely essential for our gut, our
immune system, the ura cycles and this
kind of thing. So, you really have to be
strategic uh when you're targeting
glutamine. You just can't chokeold
glutamine because it's so essential for
so many other things. So, you pulse it
uh as dosage timing and scheduling. You
chokeold the glucose with the diet
lifestyle and you come in with parasite
drugs and other drugs that will target
uh the glutamine and the glucose
together. And you exercise, you do a lot
of exercise. Okay. What's the exercise
that you would recommend to target the
glutamine? Uh, I would say that any any
most exercise, swimming, running,
walking, depending on what age you are.
You know, you're not going to get a
90-year-old guy to run a marathon. Uh,
but he can certainly walk around if he's
still able to do that. Whereas younger
people can be, you know, doing more
walking, weightlifting, and all this
kind of stuff. Because the more activity
you give your muscles, the more uh
breathing you you have, you make your
mitochondria healthy. You're sucking the
glucose and the glutamine out of the out
of the system. And then you come in with
this with with strategic targeting uh of
these processes and these hammer these
cancer cells get hammered. They can't
handle it. And then people say, "Oh,
they're versatile." No, they they're not
versatile. We interrogated these damn
cells. They are absolutely dependent on
this fuel. If you and the reason why
they look so hard, they look so great
because when you take radiation and
toxic poisons, you free up the two fuels
driving these cancer cells. So you so
the fuels the what we're doing to the
cancer patients are allowing the cells
to have the very fuels they need to
grow. So you it's it's and that's why
it's not effective for so many people.
Yeah, you can keep these things at bay
if you incinerate a whole region of your
tissue with a radiation and poison
somebody where they're vomiting and
diarrhea fatigue. I mean this is causing
stress on the tumor cell but the stress
on the body too. uh ketogenic metabolic
therapy makes the normal cells in your
body super healthy because you're
burning ketones. You're not allowing
them to be poisoned. But the tumor cells
can't make those switches. They're
locked into a fermentation metabolism.
This is unbelievable. Wait until the
world knows about this. Everybody's
going to be jumping on metabolic
therapy. Where you going? Well, let's
talk about the metabolic therapy and
what we can do at home, which is a
highfat ketogenic diet. Do you think
highfat diets can actually kill cancer,
prevent it at the comfort in your own
home? The highfat diet is designed to
keep your mitochondria healthy. If your
mitochondria remain healthy, you're not
going to get cancer. Uh it's just that
simple. So, you burn ketones and and and
it's not like, oh, let me go out and eat
a tub of lard. Um don't forget what our
ancestors did. Uh when they killed big
animals, they would go for the marrow.
The marrow had a lot of the bone marrow
has fat in it. So they would get the fat
a and they would eat organ meat. Organ
meat had a lot of glucose in it because
the liver stores in glycogen. Um so we
were getting all of our nutrients uh
from organ meat and from bone marrow.
Our ancestors knew what to do. Uh what
killed our ancestors as I said before
was injuries and infections. They did
not have antibiotics and they didn't
have orthopedic surgeons uh that could
fix broken bones and healed flesh and
this kind of stuff. So they died from
infections and injuries. Um uh we we
don't die too much from infections and
injuries today. Uh well I should say
there's MRSA in the hospitals which
which is kind of a sepsis that can kill
you real quick. Um and but they're
antibioticresistant bacteria of course
and that still will kill people. Um in
mostly in hospitals if you can believe
it. Um so but but you know we can manage
some of these uh injuries and infections
but now we're dying from chronic
diseases. We're dying from type 2 di the
con the complications of diabetes uh
cancer uh hypertension high blood
pressure cardiovascular disease. These
are all conditions of energy abuse
mitochondrial disturbance. In some
cases, in order to get cancer, not only
do you have to damage and abuse the
mitochondria, you have to do it in a
cell that is capable of upregulating the
fermentation machinery to replace the
oxygen from uh from respiration. Uh
otherwise, you can't get cancer. And the
evidence for that comes from neurons in
the brain and cardiac myioytes and
healthy people. They never get rarely if
ever get cancer because neurons cannot
switch the fermentation nor can cardiac
myioytes. they can't switch. So you
never see cancer in these kinds of
cells. Whereas other cells, liver cells,
colon cells, breast cells, these are all
can be switched to fermentation. So um
but it's very clear when you know the
biology what's going on. So can you
explain the role of being in ketosis and
this is therapeutic ketosis to not get
cancer because it's not just about
ketones, it's about therapeutic ketosis.
Can you explain that please? Yeah. Well,
therapeutic ketosis is when your blood
sugar is down and your ketones are up
and and and our ancestors, our
paleolithic ancestors were always in a
semi-state of nutritional ketosis. They
did not have highly processed
carbohydrates in the environment.
They're eating kangaroos and and walabes
and those kinds of things, right?
whatever whatever they they ate there in
Australia and we killed buffaloos and
wherever wherever we were, we ate what
was what was available for for us. Well,
you're not going to get type 2 diabetes
eating buffalo meat,
right? Because you we we have a a
hormone called choleiccytokinine which
suppresses appetite when when fats come
into the the environment. But when you
eat sugars, you you suppress
choleiccytoine and you keep eating and
eating. Sugar, glucose, is an addictive
molecule. It makes you hungry even when
you're not hungry. So, it makes you eat
even when you know you're full. Um, you
eat a great big meal of buffalo meat and
then somebody comes out with a with a
cheesecake and you're going to eat the
cheesecake, too,
right? I mean, this is all based on
phys. But our ancestors didn't have
this. They were very active. So, they
had a lot of activity and hunter
gathering. I mean, you can only sit on
your ass for so long before you have to
go out and get something to eat. And to
kill an animal uh and chop it up and and
butcher it and cook it uh takes a lot of
energy. You have to collect water from
the stream. You're always moving. You're
always doing something. Otherwise,
you're going to starve to death. And
then when you ate, you ate as much as
you possibly could, but it wasn't highly
processed carbohydrates. Um and you
know, we we we probably slept better. Uh
we had a lot of exercise. Uh and we were
in a state of nutritional ketosis.
um not by choice but by but by by
situation. And as soon as we our
technology came into place where we
could cultivate grains during the
Neolithic period, uh we could get more
carbohydrates from rice, uh wheat, corn,
uh these kinds of grains uh that brought
more carbs uh into our diet and then
eventually we could process the carbs to
make them more and more uh sweet and and
less and less nutritious. Uh of course
we get civilization around food sources.
Uh otherwise we'd all still be trying to
kill kangaroos and buffaloos. Um but but
uh now we we we farm these things. We we
have farms for the animals and and we
can provide the food for us. Now today
in on the world we have more obese
people than we have starving people. Uh
go figure this one out. So and these
obese people are mostly suffering from
all kinds of chronic diseases. Um and
cancer is being one of the big big ones.
So, we're still bi biologically
paleolithic man. We're just in a
different totally different kind of
environment than what we evolved to be
in. And uh and now our our science and
technology has has evolved much much
faster than our biology. And as a
result, we are morbidly obese. We're
chronically diseased, cancer ridden,
dementia ridden. Um and and and younger
and younger people are falling into the
cancer and some of these chronic
diseases. Diabetes in little kids,
cancer in little kids, young people.
I've seen so many in the late 20s now in
the mid-30s, early 40s, cancer going on,
colon cancer, breast cancer, brain
cancer, bladder cancer. I said, "What
the hell is going on?" It's all And then
of course we got all the the
microplastics and forever chemicals. Um
you know, and we know all of these will
chronically damage mitochondria. So, uh,
so we know pretty I know I know what
pretty much is going on here, but we're
tormented and tempted by advertisements
on television and billboards with all
these delicious foods. Um, and and we
love them. Are you kidding me? I mean,
you eat this stuff, you you know, I told
you when I eat, so I get all excited,
man. It's just like unbelievable. Eat a
big pizza, you know?
I want to talk about okay but I I do
want to give people specifics around
what foods they should really like focus
on because there's so many different
diets out there but if we can understand
what foods we should eat entirely um
that's going to help prevent cancer and
even people that have existing cancer
it's going to manage their condition
along with they could see you for the
metabolic therapy. I have a list of
foods here and I want to get your
opinion. Well, listen. I I I you let the
GKI, the glucose ketone index tell you
what you can and cannot eat. So you each
person should be their own experimental
um subject. So you you take your list of
foods and you what what could throw what
could your G glucose keto which we
published. It's a it's a little meter
now, Keto Mojo. You can go on Amazon,
you can buy it. Everybody pricks their
finger, gets a drop of blood, takes the
glucose strip, and you get the glucose
reading, and then you take the ketone
strip and get the ketone reading, and
and then you'll be able to know what
what zone you're in, what glucose ketone
index zone. So, the foods that you're
going to list uh might uh Australians
might not respond the same way as a
German or an Englishman or or an Asian.
So we we don't know uh until that
everybody measures their GKI and see
what it does to their GKI. And we public
we have this big thing now where you're
in unhealthy zones um trial and error
zones and super healthy zones. And we
know we kill cancer cells when we have a
GKI 2.0 and below. So people say, "Well,
I'm going to run out and get a 2.0." Oh
yeah? Let's see how easy it is. It's not
easy. You can't eat any of those foods
you're going to tell me. You have to do
a lot of exercise and Okay, give me one
of the foods. Give me one of the foods.
Okay, highfat meats. Highfat meats.
Well, again, that that's probably not
going to spike your glucose. And it's
going to improve your ketones. Going to
imp depends on how much you eat. Don't
eat much of it. You get very healthy if
you can just eat like uh you know, some
grams of it. Okay. What about butter?
Butter. Um well, yeah. Okay. Let's sit
down and and eat a kilo of butter,
right? ain't gonna happen. Of course, a
little bit's not going to kill you. Um,
right? None of none of this stuff is
going to hurt you in small amounts. It's
only when you start uh, you know,
pounding down big amounts of this stuff.
But yes, uh, a big ribeye steak or a
piece of liver. Uh, uh, these kinds of
things in small amounts. You throw some
bacon on top of the liver, you know,
cook the bacon and liver together and
the same um uh yeah, these are these are
all pretty uh pretty good as long as you
don't over overdo it. Oh, then we have
to have a big a big ass potato uh with a
lot of bread. Okay, then we throw
ourselves out of the glucose ketone.
Yeah, but everybody likes that, right?
Got a big piece of bread with butter
lather on the butter and you dip it into
the juices of the of the steak, the
juices of the fatty steak. That throws
you that throws you that throws you out.
It sounds like you've you've seen a lot
of uh people in person, so you know
their behavioral traits and you know
their habits. Oh yeah, absolutely. You
know, I mean that's because the bread
and the butter I mean we love it. It's
very tasty. It's got full of carbs. Very
tasty. Uh but if you ate the butter
without the bread, it would be better uh
than eating the bread with the butter.
Um but but also you can eat bread. Uh,
but I I I uh I mean we we love bread.
I'm not going to stop eating bread. But
the thing is for somebody that has
active cancer, I'm just saying or
somebody that really wants to prevent
cancer. What I'm trying to say is if you
eat some of these foods, highfat meat,
some butter, some, you know, even olive
oil or like things that don't have the
sugars and the carbohydrates, you're
really going to prevent yourself from
having cancer. Prevention for sure. Uh
once you have cancer, you can also
manage it that way. But uh how many
people are going to say, "I'm not going
to ever eat a pizza or a piece of bread
with butter on it because I want to
prevent cancer. Give me a break." You
know, it's just like the guy who smokes
the cigarette. He's I'm not going to get
lung cancer. I'll take the risk. Okay.
Some guy sitting there with a big
beautiful baked baguette got a nice
piece of butter on it. I said, "Oh, I
don't know if I should do that. It might
give me colon cancer." He's going to eat
it. You kidding me? He's going to eat
it. What if it's once in a while though
that people are having these occasional
foods? It that's okay then. I think the
exercise comes in as a real issue here.
I I think I think if you're actively
exercising uh regular
regularly uh they call it um an
opportunity to exercise you know a half
an hour for an hour a day in a
cardiovascular exercise uh re
significantly reduces the risk from
eating the bread and the butter. Um so
or other uh potentially harmful foods.
Everything is in balance. Uh but you
know, we're a species that are
absolutely imbalanced. Uh we're
compulsive. Uh right. Uh everybody's
compulsive with one thing or another. Uh
you know, they binge eat uh and then
they don't eat. You know, it's like they
binge drink and then they don't drink.
Um, so it's a balanced thing, but we're
not telling anybody they can't binge eat
or binge drink or whatever. As long as
they can maintain generally good
exercise in a GKI, uh, that's not too
whacked out. Uh, uh, you know, we see
GKIs,
um, you know, 50 and above. Sometimes we
see really high GKIs, uh, which whereas
you're like a diabetic with, um, um, you
know, 300 milligram per deciliter with
with almost no ketones. I mean his GKI
is is like 800 something like this. So
um don't do the calculation. What is I
have to I'd have to sit here and do the
calculation. You divide you have to
convert the glucose to millolar uh uh
and you divide it by 18. So you'd have
to divide 300 by by 18 and then and then
um uh um let me see. So you'd have 300
that would be 300 milligram per decaler
which is pretty high. That's like a
diabetic, right? Um uh divided by 18 uh
equals. So that's 16 by by six um uh
that's what is 16 millmer
uh divided by
0.01. Okay, that gives you a GK of 1,600
GK. And to kill and to kill cancer
cells, you need 2.0 below.
So you can get an idea of how whacked
out your GKI can be in these very
unhealthy states. So we're saying
anything above 50 uh is in it becomes on
a regular basis, not on occasional
because if we're if we're in a healthy
zone and we're going to go out and eat
the big cheesecake uh with chocolate
syrup on it or a deep fried Twinkie with
powdered sugar on it, um you know,
you're going to spike your GKI, but it's
only going to be there for a short
period of time before you can back back
level back down. Uh but the poor
diabetic who has 300 milligram per
decaliter uh with zero ketones in his
body um you know his GKI is going to be
really really high and very unhealthy
and then you see oh he has let me what
else does he have behind diab oh oh he's
morbidly obese oh he's got high blood
pressure oh he you know I mean well of
course you're putting it all together
now and then you say oh look at what's
my GKI well it's like 500 or 600 well
that tells you why you're in that zone
you shouldn't be in that zone So what
the GKI is is a hard quantitative
measure to allow a person any person in
any culture, any religion, any gender to
know whether or not uh they choose to
stay in an unhealthy zone or choose to
enter into these healthy zones and then
they can personally determine how long
they want to maintain these zones. But
but the issue is they don't. Right now,
there is no quantitative biomark or tool
that can do that except the glucose
ketone index. And that's going to be the
tool that people in the world will use
to determine whether or not they're in
various kinds of uh zones of of health
or zones that will put them at risk for
chronic disease and cancer. It's pretty
easy as well because you can use the
keto mojo and you mentioned that they
put a button on there to test the GKI
index. Is that right? Yeah. So it's just
the ratio of of blood sugar to ketones.
The problem is the meters read sugar in
in milligrams per
deciliter and that has to be converted
to millimmer. So the the mojo does it
all for you. You have a little strip of
Now here's the situation right now. You
have to take a drop of blood from the
tip of your finger and you get okay that
gives you the glucose. You put it in the
meter. It reads the glucose. Then you
squeeze your finger a little bit more.
take a ketone strip and touch the drop
and then put that into the meter and
then it will give you the ketones and
then you push the button on the meter
and it gives you the ratio which is the
GKI. So you write know right away. But
you see our technology is advancing
rather rapidly and we have a free Libra
blood glucose constant monitor that you
can put on your arm. Uh once the monitor
comes out that you can measure both
glucose and ketones and it will do all
the measure all the conversions for you,
then you can go on your cell phone and
at any given time you're going to see
your GKI uh while you're eating the the
donut, while you're eating the pizza or
while you're eating the kangaroo.
Hopefully people are eating more of the
kangaroo than than the donut. Um so so
so when people want to prevent the
cancer or even fix existing cancer so
following a highfat ketogenic approach
as much as they can don't have the
donuts and don't have the pizza um also
exercising but I do want to touch upon
water fasting that is a protocol of
metabolic therapy why does that help uh
well that throws you down that brings
your GKI down much further so this is
this is one of the strategies that we
just published in our big uh cancer
treatment protocol with with many
authors but physi physicians
scientists to nutrition dieticians and
the whole group that understand the
concepts. Um uh because a lot of people
cannot go cold turkey with water only
fasting. It's it is very hard. It it's
you're addicted to glucose. It's like
how easy is it if you're an alcoholic.
How easy is it to all of a sudden go
cold turkey on the drink? Not easy. If
you're a heavy smoker, how how easy is
it to stop smoking? Not easy. If you're
a drug addict, you're hooked on heroin
or cocaine. You can't wake up I don't
want it today. you're you're you're
you're addicted and glucose is a
powerful addiction to the brain and you
don't believe me uh okay uh don't eat
now for the next three days uh and
you'll see how how powerful that glucose
addiction is. So one way to uh break
that is to just go for a week or 10 days
on a very low carbohydrate diet and you
and you can downgrow down low the
carbohydrates as you go through because
you'll even even eating uh a very low
carbohydrate diet with whether whether
it's carnivore or whatever um
pescatarian
Mediterranean very low carb um your body
will slowly adjust because we're moving
back into our paleolithic zone. as we
evolve. This is who we are. We're
paleolithic people. And then when you're
down and you say, "My GKI is like, wow,
it's five. Uh, it's really doing good.
Now I want to kill cancer cells and I
need to get 2.0 or below." Then you do
water only fasting and you jump into
water only fasting. And now the body has
already acclimated itself to approach
this special zone. Then when you're in
water only fasting, your GKI will get
below uh two uh sometimes below one.
Then you come in with the parasite
medications and some other these
touching glutamine targeting drugs and
you just blast the hell out of these
tumor cells, man. They they get they get
cold cocked uh because they can't handle
this. This is not the environment that
makes them happy, that keeps them
growing. You're actually strangling and
starving them to death. But the rest of
the body is getting healthy burning the
ketones and fatty acids. It's just we
evolved to burn ketones and fatty acids.
The brain can switch from glucose to
fatty to not fatty acids. The brain
switches to ketones, but the muscles can
burn fatty acids. The heart can burn
fatty acids. The liver will take the
fatty acids and make ketone bodies out
of it. This is who we are. We're just
going back to our paleolithic period u
by knowing what to do and how to do it.
Now, we have a quantitative measure to
allow us to know to do this. So, it's
not a mystery. So, people say, "Oh, I'm
on ketosis. What? How did you measure
your GK?" No. Well, how do you know?
Well, I'm guessing. Well, do you
shouldn't guess. Even the neuron strips
are not accurate. No, they're not
because uh if you take a little if
you're in good ketosis and you take a
little bit of carb, you start peeing out
your ketones, you look on the strip and
say, "Wow, look at the ketosis I'm in."
And you get misinformation. It's blood.
You got to do it in the blood. Uh uh and
once we have all these technologies at
our hands, oh yeah, we're going to drop
the kid. We're never going to get rid of
cancer. We're never going to get rid of
chronic diseases. But at least we have
the choice and the knowhow now to
determine whether or not I'm at risk. Uh
I've been in a risky environment. And
some people don't care. Um there's
always the guy who who doesn't care. And
and that's what we found with the uh
with our our Greek study with the brain
cancer. Uh, some people said, "Well, I
had radiation chemo and and I had all
this stuff and I think that should be
good enough and I don't need to do any
keto." Well, he's dead. He didn't make
it. Some of those guys didn't. The ones
who who didn't hang on, uh, they all
died early. Uh, just like most of the
people, but the guys that ate the the
salmon and the and the olive oils and
the they lasted over three years. Let's
give me a break. You know, one guy's out
20 months. Pablo was out 10 years, you
know, 122 months uh dying from a
cerebral hemorrhage. But it it shows you
this works. This can work. People just
know need to know what to do and how to
do it and be helped by a knowledgeable
physician. Uh somebody that will give
them a pat on the back and say, "Good,
good going, you know, and then we can
give you a little bit of this and a
little bit of that. Keep you on that
plane and we can manage you and bring
you out of this uh state of unhealth."
But they're not getting that. They're
being told, "Oh, this is nuts. No, no
evidence to support this." So, there's a
lot of misinformation. And then you get
all the guys that are saying, "Oh, this
supplement, that supplement, oh, do this
and do that." These guys don't know
anything. They're not the ones in the
lab. So, do you think that any
supplements work for for cancer or they
don't? Uh, some of I know I'm not
against supplements that have no
function uh because it makes you feel
good. It's a placebo thing. But some of
these supplements can actually make a
bad situation worse by by some guy
saying something. I don't want to go
through like what supplement is good and
what's not good. But you know the there
these guys are charlatans quacks. But
you know the on the other hand uh you
take a sick person and u and poison
them. I mean that's also quackery in my
mind. It's just it's just substantiated
by the
system. I mean we in a hundred years
we're going to look back and say what
the hell did we do to these poor people?
Why did we brutalize them uh like this?
Uh didn't we know that you could get the
same the job done without having to do
this? But it's going to take a while for
the system to adjust and the people to
understand and uh we just keep
publishing the papers and more and more
trials will come out and GKIS will be
used and people will know what to do and
how to do it. It's just that simple.
Okay, last question for you. You
mentioned that people like to eat the
bread, the pizza and all the rest of it.
What do you think is a worse food or
foods that cause cancer?
Well, I I don't I don't want to say
cause cancer. I want to say put you at
risk for mitochondrial dysfunction. That
that's the key. What causes cancer?
Mitochondrial uh oxifos insufficiency
coupled to a substrate level
phosphorilation. Uh whether you get that
from a viral infection, from radiation,
uh from poor sleep, from carcinogens,
all of those things. Um B. Now if you
have cancer and you eat foods that are
loaded with poorly highly processed
carbs, you're going to make the cancer
cells are going to love it. They're
going to grow faster. Uh we did one of
the first studies in mice where we
showed that you could actually
accelerate or or reduce the speed of
with disregulated cell growth directly
measuring blood sugar. The higher the
sugar, the faster the cancer cells grow.
And this now has been shown for colon
breast cancer humans. you you want to
you want to get your cancer to grow
fast, you got to get your blood sugar
up, uh you really have to work hard.
Now, if that means you eat pizzas and
donuts every night and and chocolate
bars and ice cream, whatever has the
highest level of highly processed carbs
will make your cancer grow fast. Um uh
and and and this has already been shown
in the clinic. Those folks that have
higher blood sugar levels don't live as
long as the people who have lower blood
sugars. So, so, so we know that reducing
your blood sugar and this is doesn't
make any sense because because some of
these cancer patients uh are uh they
have fatigue, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, they lose they're losing
weight because they've been poisoned and
radiated. So, we call that pathological
weight loss. So, in order to gain the
weight, they they give you insure and
donuts and pizzas and and they give you
all this. This is nuts. This is nuts.
What are these people doing? Oh, we have
to keep the weight on. Well, why did he
lose weight? Oh, because we poisoned the
guy. Well, who doesn't lose weight when
you're poisoned? Go go go and take some
of the chemo. You want to lose weight?
Take chemo. You know, vomiting,
diarrhea, fatigue, nausea. You can't get
gain weight when you have this kind of a
feeling. So, so we're going to give you
now sugary diet foods to gain your
weight back. This is nuts. This is
crazy, man. This is like nuts. People
will come to know in the years they say,
"Whoa, man. Who are the crazy people
doing this stuff?" So all we have to do
is target the glucose and glutamine and
transition the body to nutritional
ketosis and you can hammer these tumor
cells without going bald without having
your gums bleeding without sitting on
the toilet all day long without can't
get out of bed because you feel so bad.
They said you don't have to have any of
this stuff. What do you think about
early um tests to test for cancer? Is
that valid? Is that good? Like mamograms
because they talk about the risk
associated with the radiation of all
these early screening. Yeah. Well, I I
don't know about that. They they they
always say, you know, colon cancer,
colon cancer, we got to have
colonoscopies and all this stuff. Colon
cancer is increasing all the time with
even if you have colonoscopy. I don't
know what's going on with that with that
stuff. All I know is it's really hard to
get cancer if you have a low GKI. Um so,
uh you know, and if you if you are
detected to have cancer, uh you I I I'm
I'm not telling any I'm not a physician.
I can't tell anybody what to do or what
not to do. All I can do is share the
scientific information with them. Uh but
I would never use a biopsy or any of
this stuff because you run the risk of
spreading the tumor cells around the
body. Uh I I would like to know what
non-invasive imaging technology could
you use to say you have a lesion that
looks like it could be cancer. Uh but we
can't know until we do a biopsy. Well,
let's just assume it is uh without doing
the biopsy and let's just hammer the
hell out of it using metabolic therapy
and then see what happens to it. Okay.
Oh, wow. It shrunk. Uh in some cases it
might go away. Well, why would you do
stick something that's no longer there?
And then if it doesn't go away, well,
why don't we consider a surgical
procedure to see if we can just get rid
of it or a dose of radiation in a period
in an area of the body which is very
hard to surgically get to, but it's now
shrunken. It's not the same as it was
when it was first detected. Now, we may
be able to use radiation as a curative
procedure, surgery as a curative
procedure. Um, and we may not need to
use much chemo. And if we had to use
chemo, we might use just a tiny bit of
it just to see if we can kill a few
cells off or imunotherapy after the
tumor is shrunk and there's only a few
small, we might come in with a small
dose of imunotherapy. So again, we have
all the tools needed right now to manage
cancer effectively if we know how to use
them in terms of what the nature of the
biology of the problem is and and that's
what we do. So yeah, this is going to
happen. I have I have no no doubt about
it. You know why it works. So if
somebody is listening to this cuz I know
my cousin, so my aunt, she has active
cancer and I think I reached out to you
because um they wanted to get help from
the doctors in your clinic. So if
somebody wants to do this metabolic
therapy, how do they do it if they can't
go to Istanbul, Turkey? Well, you know,
I mean, this is the great tragedy right
now. And we know what to do and we know
how to do it, but but but the patient
themselves can't be the only
participant. Uh metabolic therapy
requires a tremendous input and act
activity upon the part of the patient.
Some patients don't even want to be
bothered and it requires some level of
scientific literacy uh if you want to
survive and a lot of neither the
physicians nor the patients uh have the
scientific literacy to to work together
as a team. Um you have to have the uh uh
the caregivers. They must be
knowledgeable and understand the science
that I that we are producing and and we
have written very comprehensive
treatment protocols for physicians to
become educated to help their patients.
But the patient must also be
knowledgeable. So I don't know. I never
had a well then you put your soul your
existence at risk. You better wise up
quick otherwise you're going to be uh
part of the planet. Um, so, uh, so you
have to if though th if those people are
motivated enough to want to know about
this stuff, but they need somebody to
help explain this to them. Um, and the
and the physi if the physician thinks
cancer is a genetic disease, he's not
the right guy to be explaining this to
them. So, uh, so they have to be
educated as well. So, the the the
hospitals, the caretakers must be
educated. You know, you go to a
hospital, man, they get the worst kind
of food there. They're given to these
poor people. It's just terrible, right?
It's just unbelievable. So, um, and the
nutritionists are giving you, uh, insure
and and candy to make your weight gain
in the hospital. Um, you know, it's
like, what's going on? Uh, because we've
lost we've lost an understanding of who
we are as a species, where we came from,
where did our biology come from, how did
we evolve, where did we how did we
become who we are today? And it all goes
back to biochemistry, uh, evolutionary
biology, and then we can manage these
diseases. We shouldn't allow ignorance
to stand in our way because we can do
it. And we just people just have to be
shown what to do and how to do it. And
that's what's going to happen. And they
can do this at home. Like even if you
want to prevent it with a GKI index,
it's really really easy. People just
need to like take a bit of action. Yeah.
But you have to realize that as an
impulsive species, uh, we can sometimes
overdo things and put ourselves at risk.
uh going overboard uh on some of these
things, thereby throwing you out of a
healthy zone, uh thinking you're doing
good when you're not, or pounding down
some a supplement that somebody told you
is good and it's not working. So, so
again, you need knowledgeable
caregivers that will tell you, "No,
don't do that. Stay on this. Do because
right now it's like the Wild West. Oh,
this guy, you know, he, you know, he
said to eat
eat dry toads and this guy over here
said to drink goats urine, you know, and
oh yeah, I'm going to drink goats urine
now. Get rid of my It's true. I have
papers showing this stuff, you know. Um,
yeah, people people have no scientific
literacy. A lot of them are functionally
illiterate. You you've got to work with
the with the with the masses to help
educate them and the physicians that are
treating them. That's the thing like if
you're sick in this health care system
um it's pretty hard because it's pretty
hard to find a physician that will
understand the disease and where it
comes from. People aren't like you,
Professor Seaf Freed. Yeah, but they
they but they should be trained in
medical schools to know this. And when
they No, they're told it's a genetic
disease. I know. But like even when
people have a blood test done and you go
see a traditional doctor and they'll
just because I do a ketogenic diet, the
number one thing that they're going to
say is my B12 is too high, cholesterol
is too high. I'm just like, are you
kidding? Can we like get over this LDL
and cholesterol and all these different
things? They don't get it. Well, I I I
we used in the mice we we found it's
triglycerides uh is the key. My
triglycerides are so low. That's the
thing. You're not you're not 400 pounds,
your eyes squeezed shut, you know, uh
with a with a with a GKI or 500. Um you
need a wheelchair to get around. Uh
you're you're you're not health
unhealthy. Okay. The guy sitting in a
wheelchair at at at 45 years old
weighing 400 lb with a with a GKI of
600. Now, he's not healthy, you know. Um
uh but yet that's what we're seeing all
over the world. We're starting to see
this. And uh and then they pound them
full of pills. uh take this and that and
then you know rather than and now we
have all these weight loss things. What
is it uh optivo jardians and all this
and nobody knows what the hell's going
to happen to people taking that stuff
for 12 or 14 years you know all of a
sudden you know your body is completely
different. Get off the pills and all of
a sudden everything explodes back at you
again. You know um but that's the quick
and easy way. That's who we are as well.
Uh we don't want any inconvenience or
discomfort. We just want a quick fix, a
pill. I take this pill. So I said with
ketogenic metabolic therapy, yeah, take
this pill with a cup of water uh twice a
day and that's all you take. This tiny
little pill with a cup of water for
three weeks, no food. All of a sudden,
wow, that pill really works, doesn't it?
But it's hard. Professor Seaf Freed,
thank you so much for your time. I mean,
I think the more and more that you do
this, more and more people are hearing
about the metabolic therapy and it's
going to change. You know, things change
over time. Takes about few decades, but
it's going to change. I know it takes
two, but the the sad thing is we have to
sacrifice uh all these poor folks in the
United States is 1,700 a day, 70 an hour
dying from cancer. So that's the
tragedy. It it it doesn't have to be
this way. Um until the system changes,
we're not going to make any major
advances. So people should know that um
uh once they realize it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease, we're
going to drop the death rate uh
precipitously uh quite quite
effectively. And yeah, it might take
five or seven years or something like
this, but it'll happen. No question
about it. It's going to happen. Well,
thank you so much for your time. I'm
sure that we're going to see you very
very soon. Keep doing your amazing work.
Oh, thank you very much. Nice to be
here. Thank you for joining me today on
this episode with Professor Thomas C.
Freed. If you'd like to know more
information about metabolic therapy,
simply go to the description of this
episode, click on how to prevent cancer,
open that up, and you'll see all the
information there about metabolic
therapy. If you're learning from
enjoying these free episodes, please hit
the subscribe button. You can also find
me on other social media accounts. I'm
on Instagram and on X under the name of
the Primal Podcast. Now, if you love
this episode, you'll enjoy another
episode I did with Dr. Philip Ovedia. We
spoke about everything the heart, how to
fix your heart and prevent heart
disease. We spoke about why red meat is
so important, why you should not worry
about cholesterol and LDL, and why your
LDL can increase on a carnivore diet.
Finally, thank you for your interest in
root cause healing and I'll see you next